SECURITY.md, before:

# MBEE Security

**Contents**
- [Disclosure Policy](#disclosure-policy)
- [Security Update Policy](#security-update-policy)
- [Known Gaps and Issues](#known-gaps-and-issues)
- [Security Related Configuration](#security-related-configuration)
  - [Plugins and Integrations](#plugins-and-integrations)
  - [Ports](#ports)
  - [Configuration JSON File](#configuration-json-file)
  - [HTTPS](#https)
  - [Server Secret Key](#server-secret-key)
  - [MongoDB](#mongodb)
  - [Authentication](#authentication)
- [Security for Developers](#security-for-developers)


## Disclosure Policy

**Lockheed Martin Internal**

If a bug or vulnerability is identified in MBEE, please notify the
MBEE software team by emailing the
[dl-SSC, MBEE-Software](mailto:mbee-software.dl-ssc@exch.ems.lmco.com)
distribution list. This list contains MBEE software engineering POCs who should
be notified of such an issue. **DO NOT** disclose vulnerabilities on our JIRA
service desk.

Your email will be acknowledged within 1 business day and a more detailed
follow-up will be provided with 5 business days.

When disclosing a vulnerability, please provide the following information:

- The server on which the issue was identified (name and IP address)
- The MBEE version (can be retrieved from the MBEE /about page)
- A detailed description of the issue (the more detail, the better) so our team
can quickly reproduce the issue
- Programs/projects affected

**External OpenMBEE**

> This only applies to non-LM users and the open source version of MBEE.
> Lockheed Martin users (even if using the open source MBEE) should follow the
> procedures above.

If an issue is identified in the open source version MBEE, please email
[mbee-software.dl-ssc@exch.ems.lmco.com](mailto:mbee-software.dl-ssc@exch.ems.lmco.com).
This will notify the Lockheed Martin MBEE Software Engineering team of the
issue. Your email will be acknowledged within 1 business day and a more detailed
follow-up will be provided with 5 business days.

When disclosing a vulnerability, please provide the following information:

- Server information: any environment details about the instance of MBEE on
which the issue was identified that can reasonably be provided.
- The MBEE version (can be retrieved from the MBEE /about page) and whether or
not the original source code has been modified. Details about any modifications
can be helpful if they can be provided.
- A detailed description of the issue (the more detail, the better) so our team
can quickly reproduce the issue.
- Organization(s) impacted/affected

## Security Update Policy

**Lockheed Martin Internal**

If and when security-related updates are made to MBEE, the
[dl-SSC, MBEE-Admins](mailto:mbee-admin.dl-ssc@exch.ems.lmco.com) distribution
list will be notified first. If you are a system administrator of an MBEE
instance, please contact the [dl-SSC, MBEE-Software](mailto:mbee-software.dl-ssc@exch.ems.lmco.com)
distribution list to ensure you are added to the admins distribution list.

Once admins are notified and are able to update their instances, the
[dl-SSC, MBEE-Users](mailto:mbee-users.dl-ssc@exch.ems.lmco.com) distribution
list will be notified in the interest of transparency and program communication.

If your program has special needs that may require an alteration to this policy,
please contact our software team using the above *dl-SSC, MBEE-Software*
distribution list so that we may work together to identify an approach to meet
your program's needs.

Security updates should include a reasonable level of detail about the issue,
the severity and likelihood of impact, and the MBEE team's assessment of the
risk introduced by the issue. Security updates will also notify which versions
are impacted and how to either update MBEE to a fixed version or how to
mitigate the issue.

For a list of MBEE security related updates, a web page will be created at
[mbee.us.lmco.com](https://mbee.us.lmco.com) provide that information.

**External OpenMBEE**

> This only applies to non-LM users and the open source version of MBEE.

Upon public release of MBEE a security update policy will be defined for the
open source version of MBEE. This might be as simple as a security mailing list.

## Known Gaps and Issues

#### MBEE Tests
The MBEE tests should not be run in production because the tests will create
an arbitrary admin user in the database.

It's important to ensure that all test users are deleted from the database.

#### Asynchronous Build Script 

Some components in the build script are asynchronous and the build script will 
print out a message that build is complete before build has finished.

#### UI Model Tree Refresh
When updating the parent in the model tree causes issues with the re-rendering 
of model tree elements due to the refresh element functions.

#### Password Validation
Since, the password validation is through the modular authentication strategies,
there is no easy way to tell if a password valid.

## Security Related Configuration

### Plugins and Integrations
There are a few ways of writing applications that interact with MBEE. Client
applications and service-based integrations interact with MBEE via its API
and don't require much discussion here. However, understanding plugins is
critical to maintaining the security posture of an MBEE instance.

A plugin is a type of integration for MBEE that runs on the same server. In
fact, it is part of the same running process. It is a module or collection of
modules written in JavaScript as an Express application that is included by MBEE
and used under namespaced routes. These plugins offer the ability to extend the
functionality of MBEE. On one hand they allow for high-performance integrations
with direct access to the underlying MBEE modules and database connections, on
the other hand they extend MBEE functionality in along a monolithic architecture
rather than a distributed microservice architecture that is created by API-based
integrations.

The most important thing to realize here is that a plugin, once-installed, is
part of MBEE. It is part of the same running process, has access to the running
configuration (which can include DB and/or LDAP credentials), and can execute
code on the server with the same privileges as the MBEE application.

This makes plugins critical to the running application's security posture.
It is the responsibility of the MBEE administrator to fully vet and understand
any plugins being installed on an MBEE instance.

### Ports

| Port   | Purpose                                                            |
|:-------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 9080   | MBEE HTTP port, this is adjustable in the configuration file.      |
| 9443   | MBEE HTTPS port, this is adjustable in the configuration file.     |
| 27017  | MongoDB. See [MongoDB section below](#mongodb) for more detail.    |


### Configuration JSON File

MBEE retrieves its configuration information from the JSON files in
`config/*.json`. Which JSON file is used depends on the value of the `NODE_ENV`
environment variable. MBEE looks for a file called `config/<NODE_ENV>.json`,
where `<NODE_ENV>` is the value stored in the `NODE_ENV` environment variabled.
For example, if `NODE_ENV` is set to `production` MBEE will use the file
`config/production.json` for its configuration.

This configuration file contains security-related information such as database
credentials, authentication information, SSL certificate info, and more. This
configuration should not be checked into version control.

> It should be noted that this configuration is version controlled for the MBEE
> development configurations. This is based on the assumptions that the security
> of the development instance of MBEE is considered low risk and that the
> gitlab.lmms.lmco.com server is considered reasonably secure.
>
> This MUST be changed to a more secure approach and all credentials defined in
> those configurations invalided before running MBEE's first internal production
> instance.

> Also note that certain authentication strategies may require that the users
> API route be disabled in order to resolve conflicts between local or LDAP
> authentication. This users API route can be disable on a per method basis in
> the configuration file under server/api/userAPI.

### HTTPS

To run MBEE with SSL enabled, you need a valid SSL certificate for the server.
Once you have this you can simply define name of that certificate (which MBEE
expects to find in the `certs` directory of the project) in the `server.https`
section of the configuration JSON file. For example, consider the following
section of the configuration file:

```json
{
  "server": {
    "http": {
      "enabled": true,
      "port": 9080
    },
    "https": {
      "enabled": true,
      "port": 9443,
      "sslCertName": "dev.mbee.us.lmco.com"
    }
  }
}
```

HTTP and HTTPS can be enabled or disabled individually by setting their
respective `enabled` fields to either true or false. To run MBEE with only
HTTPS, simply disable HTTP by changing the `server.http.enabled` field to
`false`. Also, note that the ports used for HTTP and HTTPS can be configured.

### Server Secret Key

The `server` section of the config also contains a `secret` field which is used
as the secret key for symmetric encryption operations related to token-based
authentication. This secret key can be set manually, however, MBEE supports the
special case of a random key. When the `server.secret` field is set to `RANDOM`,
MBEE will use a randomly generated string as the secret key. This key is
generated on server startup and will change with each restart of the server.
This means that a restart of the server will invalidate session tokens.

### MongoDB

**MongoDB Authentication**
The `db` section of the configuration JSON file defines how MBEE will connect
to the MongoDB database. **MongoDB by default does not run securely.** By
default, MongoDB does not require authentication. To enable authentication on
MongoDB you must first run the server without authentication enabled (we
recommend doing this in an isolated environment). To do this, run
`mongod --dbpath=./db`, where `./db` is the path to your database.

> You can run MongoDB from whatever directory you like, but you must ensure the
> directory containing the database contents has appropriate permissions
> settings for your environment.

With MongoDB running, you can add an admin user as follows:

```
use admin
db.createUser(
  {
    user: "admin",
    pwd: "admin",
    roles: [{
        role: "userAdminAnyDatabase",
        db: "admin"
    }]
  }
)
```

The `use admin` command creates the admin database, then `db.createUser` is used
to create your admin user. To create a database and user for MBEE, you can
run the following:

```
use <YOUR_MBEE_DB>
db.createUser({
    user: "<YOUR_MBEE_USERNAME>",
    pwd: "<YOUR_MBEE_PASSWORD>",
    roles: [{
        role: "readWrite",
        db: "<YOUR_MBEE_DB>"
    }]
})
```

In this case, `<YOUR_MBEE_DB>` is the name of the MBEE database,
`<YOUR_MBEE_USERNAME>` is the name of your database user, and
`<YOUR_MBEE_PASSWORD>` is the password to use for your MBEE user.

> This goes without saying, but don't use easy to guess usernames and passwords.

Once authentication is configured, you can stop MongoDB and re-run it with the
`--auth` flag. For example:

```
mongod --auth --dbpath=./db
```

**SSL**
To enable SSL on MongoDB, you need a valid SSL certificate in `PEM` format and
a CA file for that certificate if necessary. To enable SSL, run MongoDB with
the following flags:

```
mongod --sslMode requireSSL \
       --sslPEMKeyFile /path/to/your/certificate.pem \
       --sslCAFile /path/to/your/certificateAuthority.pem \
       --sslAllowConnectionsWithoutCertificates
```

**Other Useful Security-Related Flags**
The `--bind_ip` flag can be used to tell MongoDB what interfaces to listen on.
For example `--bind_ip 0.0.0.0` will listen on all interfaces where
`--bind_ip 127.0.0.1` will only listen on localhost.

The `--logpath=/path/to/your/log/file.log` can be used to specify the MongoDB
log file.

**Recommendations**
Consider running MongoDB in the following way:

```
mongod --sslMode requireSSL \
       --sslPEMKeyFile /path/to/your/certificate.pem \
       --sslCAFile /path/to/your/ca.pem \
       --sslAllowConnectionsWithoutCertificates \
       --bind_ip YOUR.IP.ADDRESS.HERE \
       --auth --dbpath=/path/to/your/db \
       --fork --logpath=/path/to/your/log/file.log
```

### Authentication

MBEE operates on a concept of *modular authentication*. This means that one or
more authentication modules are defined in the MBEE code. These authentication
modules are located in the `app/auth` directory. MBEE was built to be an open
source product and was therefore designed with varying organizations in mind.

To accommodate this, we implemented these authentication modules which allow
each organization to write a few small functions to define their own
authentication strategies that meet their organization's needs. As such, the
module to be used is defined in the configuration JSON file. Consider the JSON
configuration example below:

```json
{
  "auth": {
    "strategy": "ldap-strategy",
    "ldap": {
        // LDAP information
    },
    "token": {
      "expires": 10,
      "units": "MINUTES"
    },
    "session": {
      "expires": 30,
      "units": "MINUTES"
    }
  }
}
```

The `auth.strategy` section tells MBEE which authentication module or *strategy*
to used. The `auth.ldap` section is required for the LDAP strategy and is used
to pass LDAP-specific information into MBEE.

Also important to note is the `auth.token` and `auth.session` configuration.
Both allow the definition of an expiration time, but there are differences
between the two that should be explained.

A token is generated within MBEE. It stores basic information about the user
(such as username and token expiration time) encrypted using the server's secret
key (see the section on [Server Secret Key](#server-secret-key) above). This
token is used to authenticate the user during session token authentication as
well as API token authentication. The `auth.token` section defines when this
token expires.

When interacting with MBEE via the UI, a user's token is stored in their session
object. The `auth.session` section defines when a session expires.

For API interactions with MBEE, only the `auth.token` expiration matters since
sessions aren't used. However, for UI interaction with MBEE, both the token
and session definitions matter. Whichever expires first will cause the user's
authentication to expire.


## Security for Developers

TODO - Discuss security-related developer considerations

Commit message:

Updated password validation section in SECURITY.md

SECURITY.md, after:

# MBEE Security

**Contents**
- [Disclosure Policy](#disclosure-policy)
- [Security Update Policy](#security-update-policy)
- [Known Gaps and Issues](#known-gaps-and-issues)
- [Security Related Configuration](#security-related-configuration)
  - [Plugins and Integrations](#plugins-and-integrations)
  - [Ports](#ports)
  - [Configuration JSON File](#configuration-json-file)
  - [HTTPS](#https)
  - [Server Secret Key](#server-secret-key)
  - [MongoDB](#mongodb)
  - [Authentication](#authentication)
- [Security for Developers](#security-for-developers)


## Disclosure Policy

**Lockheed Martin Internal**

If a bug or vulnerability is identified in MBEE, please notify the
MBEE software team by emailing the
[dl-SSC, MBEE-Software](mailto:mbee-software.dl-ssc@exch.ems.lmco.com)
distribution list. This list contains MBEE software engineering POCs who should
be notified of such an issue. **DO NOT** disclose vulnerabilities on our JIRA
service desk.

Your email will be acknowledged within 1 business day and a more detailed
follow-up will be provided with 5 business days.

When disclosing a vulnerability, please provide the following information:

- The server on which the issue was identified (name and IP address)
- The MBEE version (can be retrieved from the MBEE /about page)
- A detailed description of the issue (the more detail, the better) so our team
can quickly reproduce the issue
- Programs/projects affected

**External OpenMBEE**

> This only applies to non-LM users and the open source version of MBEE.
> Lockheed Martin users (even if using the open source MBEE) should follow the
> procedures above.

If an issue is identified in the open source version MBEE, please email
[mbee-software.dl-ssc@exch.ems.lmco.com](mailto:mbee-software.dl-ssc@exch.ems.lmco.com).
This will notify the Lockheed Martin MBEE Software Engineering team of the
issue. Your email will be acknowledged within 1 business day and a more detailed
follow-up will be provided with 5 business days.

When disclosing a vulnerability, please provide the following information:

- Server information: any environment details about the instance of MBEE on
which the issue was identified that can reasonably be provided.
- The MBEE version (can be retrieved from the MBEE /about page) and whether or
not the original source code has been modified. Details about any modifications
can be helpful if they can be provided.
- A detailed description of the issue (the more detail, the better) so our team
can quickly reproduce the issue.
- Organization(s) impacted/affected

## Security Update Policy

**Lockheed Martin Internal**

If and when security-related updates are made to MBEE, the
[dl-SSC, MBEE-Admins](mailto:mbee-admin.dl-ssc@exch.ems.lmco.com) distribution
list will be notified first. If you are a system administrator of an MBEE
instance, please contact the [dl-SSC, MBEE-Software](mailto:mbee-software.dl-ssc@exch.ems.lmco.com)
distribution list to ensure you are added to the admins distribution list.

Once admins are notified and are able to update their instances, the
[dl-SSC, MBEE-Users](mailto:mbee-users.dl-ssc@exch.ems.lmco.com) distribution
list will be notified in the interest of transparency and program communication.

If your program has special needs that may require an alteration to this policy,
please contact our software team using the above *dl-SSC, MBEE-Software*
distribution list so that we may work together to identify an approach to meet
your program's needs.

Security updates should include a reasonable level of detail about the issue,
the severity and likelihood of impact, and the MBEE team's assessment of the
risk introduced by the issue. Security updates will also notify which versions
are impacted and how to either update MBEE to a fixed version or how to
mitigate the issue.

For a list of MBEE security related updates, a web page will be created at
[mbee.us.lmco.com](https://mbee.us.lmco.com) provide that information.

**External OpenMBEE**

> This only applies to non-LM users and the open source version of MBEE.

Upon public release of MBEE a security update policy will be defined for the
open source version of MBEE. This might be as simple as a security mailing list.

## Known Gaps and Issues

#### MBEE Tests
The MBEE tests should not be run in production because the tests will create
an arbitrary admin user in the database.

It's important to ensure that all test users are deleted from the database.

#### Asynchronous Build Script

Some components in the build script are asynchronous and the build script will
print out a message that build is complete before build has finished.

#### UI Model Tree Refresh
When updating the parent in the model tree causes issues with the re-rendering
of model tree elements due to the refresh element functions.

## Security Related Configuration

### Plugins and Integrations
There are a few ways of writing applications that interact with MBEE. Client
applications and service-based integrations interact with MBEE via its API
and don't require much discussion here. However, understanding plugins is
critical to maintaining the security posture of an MBEE instance.

A plugin is a type of integration for MBEE that runs on the same server. In
fact, it is part of the same running process. It is a module or collection of
modules written in JavaScript as an Express application that is included by MBEE
and used under namespaced routes. These plugins offer the ability to extend the
functionality of MBEE. On one hand they allow for high-performance integrations
with direct access to the underlying MBEE modules and database connections, on
the other hand they extend MBEE functionality in along a monolithic architecture
rather than a distributed microservice architecture that is created by API-based
integrations.

The most important thing to realize here is that a plugin, once-installed, is
part of MBEE. It is part of the same running process, has access to the running
configuration (which can include DB and/or LDAP credentials), and can execute
code on the server with the same privileges as the MBEE application.

This makes plugins critical to the running application's security posture.
It is the responsibility of the MBEE administrator to fully vet and understand
any plugins being installed on an MBEE instance.

### Ports

| Port   | Purpose                                                            |
|:-------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 9080   | MBEE HTTP port, this is adjustable in the configuration file.      |
| 9443   | MBEE HTTPS port, this is adjustable in the configuration file.     |
| 27017  | MongoDB. See [MongoDB section below](#mongodb) for more detail.    |


### Configuration JSON File

MBEE retrieves its configuration information from the JSON files in
`config/*.json`. Which JSON file is used depends on the value of the `NODE_ENV`
environment variable. MBEE looks for a file called `config/<NODE_ENV>.json`,
where `<NODE_ENV>` is the value stored in the `NODE_ENV` environment variabled.
For example, if `NODE_ENV` is set to `production` MBEE will use the file
`config/production.json` for its configuration.

This configuration file contains security-related information such as database
credentials, authentication information, SSL certificate info, and more. This
configuration should not be checked into version control.

> It should be noted that this configuration is version controlled for the MBEE
> development configurations. This is based on the assumptions that the security
> of the development instance of MBEE is considered low risk and that the
> gitlab.lmms.lmco.com server is considered reasonably secure.
>
> This MUST be changed to a more secure approach and all credentials defined in
> those configurations invalided before running MBEE's first internal production
> instance.

> Also note that certain authentication strategies may require that the users
> API route be disabled in order to resolve conflicts between local or LDAP
> authentication. This users API route can be disable on a per method basis in
> the configuration file under server/api/userAPI.

### Password Validation

Password validation was designed to be configurable through each authentication
module. When a user is created, the configured auth module is checked for an
exported validator function called `validatePassword()`. This function should
accept up to two parameters, the password (required) and the provider
(optional), and should return a boolean of whether the password is valid or not.

When creating a user, this function is ran and if the value *false* is returned,
the creation of that user is rejected. The default password requirements
provided in the local-strategy expect each password to contain at least 8
characters and at least one number, uppercase letter, lowercase letter and at
least one special character. If desired, one implementing this function can
allow for stricter requirements, but we do not suggest lessening the
requirements for security reasons.

If using an auth module that does not need to store passwords in the database
(such as LDAP), the `validatePassword()` function still needs to be provided and
exported, but only needs to return *true* for any case.

### HTTPS

To run MBEE with SSL enabled, you need a valid SSL certificate for the server.
Once you have this you can simply define name of that certificate (which MBEE
expects to find in the `certs` directory of the project) in the `server.https`
section of the configuration JSON file. For example, consider the following
section of the configuration file:

```json
{
  "server": {
    "http": {
      "enabled": true,
      "port": 9080
    },
    "https": {
      "enabled": true,
      "port": 9443,
      "sslCertName": "dev.mbee.us.lmco.com"
    }
  }
}
```

HTTP and HTTPS can be enabled or disabled individually by setting their
respective `enabled` fields to either true or false. To run MBEE with only
HTTPS, simply disable HTTP by changing the `server.http.enabled` field to
`false`. Also, note that the ports used for HTTP and HTTPS can be configured.

### Server Secret Key

The `server` section of the config also contains a `secret` field which is used
as the secret key for symmetric encryption operations related to token-based
authentication. This secret key can be set manually, however, MBEE supports the
special case of a random key. When the `server.secret` field is set to `RANDOM`,
MBEE will use a randomly generated string as the secret key. This key is
generated on server startup and will change with each restart of the server.
This means that a restart of the server will invalidate session tokens.

### MongoDB

**MongoDB Authentication**
The `db` section of the configuration JSON file defines how MBEE will connect
to the MongoDB database. **MongoDB by default does not run securely.** By
default, MongoDB does not require authentication. To enable authentication on
MongoDB you must first run the server without authentication enabled (we
recommend doing this in an isolated environment). To do this, run
`mongod --dbpath=./db`, where `./db` is the path to your database.

> You can run MongoDB from whatever directory you like, but you must ensure the
> directory containing the database contents has appropriate permissions
> settings for your environment.

With MongoDB running, you can add an admin user as follows:

```
use admin
db.createUser(
  {
    user: "admin",
    pwd: "admin",
    roles: [{
        role: "userAdminAnyDatabase",
        db: "admin"
    }]
  }
)
```

The `use admin` command creates the admin database, then `db.createUser` is used
to create your admin user. To create a database and user for MBEE, you can
run the following:

```
use <YOUR_MBEE_DB>
db.createUser({
    user: "<YOUR_MBEE_USERNAME>",
    pwd: "<YOUR_MBEE_PASSWORD>",
    roles: [{
        role: "readWrite",
        db: "<YOUR_MBEE_DB>"
    }]
})
```

In this case, `<YOUR_MBEE_DB>` is the name of the MBEE database,
`<YOUR_MBEE_USERNAME>` is the name of your database user, and
`<YOUR_MBEE_PASSWORD>` is the password to use for your MBEE user.

> This goes without saying, but don't use easy to guess usernames and passwords.

Once authentication is configured, you can stop MongoDB and re-run it with the
`--auth` flag. For example:

```
mongod --auth --dbpath=./db
```

**SSL**
To enable SSL on MongoDB, you need a valid SSL certificate in `PEM` format and
a CA file for that certificate if necessary. To enable SSL, run MongoDB with
the following flags:

```
mongod --sslMode requireSSL \
       --sslPEMKeyFile /path/to/your/certificate.pem \
       --sslCAFile /path/to/your/certificateAuthority.pem \
       --sslAllowConnectionsWithoutCertificates
```

**Other Useful Security-Related Flags**
The `--bind_ip` flag can be used to tell MongoDB what interfaces to listen on.
For example `--bind_ip 0.0.0.0` will listen on all interfaces where
`--bind_ip 127.0.0.1` will only listen on localhost.

The `--logpath=/path/to/your/log/file.log` can be used to specify the MongoDB
log file.

**Recommendations**
Consider running MongoDB in the following way:

```
mongod --sslMode requireSSL \
       --sslPEMKeyFile /path/to/your/certificate.pem \
       --sslCAFile /path/to/your/ca.pem \
       --sslAllowConnectionsWithoutCertificates \
       --bind_ip YOUR.IP.ADDRESS.HERE \
       --auth --dbpath=/path/to/your/db \
       --fork --logpath=/path/to/your/log/file.log
```

### Authentication

MBEE operates on a concept of *modular authentication*. This means that one or
more authentication modules are defined in the MBEE code. These authentication
modules are located in the `app/auth` directory. MBEE was built to be an open
source product and was therefore designed with varying organizations in mind.

To accommodate this, we implemented these authentication modules which allow
each organization to write a few small functions to define their own
authentication strategies that meet their organization's needs. As such, the
module to be used is defined in the configuration JSON file. Consider the JSON
configuration example below:

```json
{
  "auth": {
    "strategy": "ldap-strategy",
    "ldap": {
        // LDAP information
    },
    "token": {
      "expires": 10,
      "units": "MINUTES"
    },
    "session": {
      "expires": 30,
      "units": "MINUTES"
    }
  }
}
```

The `auth.strategy` section tells MBEE which authentication module or *strategy*
to used. The `auth.ldap` section is required for the LDAP strategy and is used
to pass LDAP-specific information into MBEE.

Also important to note is the `auth.token` and `auth.session` configuration.
Both allow the definition of an expiration time, but there are differences
between the two that should be explained.

A token is generated within MBEE. It stores basic information about the user
(such as username and token expiration time) encrypted using the server's secret
key (see the section on [Server Secret Key](#server-secret-key) above). This
token is used to authenticate the user during session token authentication as
well as API token authentication. The `auth.token` section defines when this
token expires.

When interacting with MBEE via the UI, a user's token is stored in their session
object. The `auth.session` section defines when a session expires.

For API interactions with MBEE, only the `auth.token` expiration matters since
sessions aren't used. However, for UI interaction with MBEE, both the token
and session definitions matter. Whichever expires first will cause the user's
authentication to expire.


## Security for Developers

TODO - Discuss security-related developer considerations
