# Introduction

Welcome to the MBEE Flight Manual. This document is intended to be an all 
encompassing user manual for the Model-Based Engineering Environment (MBEE). 
The document begins with introductory material describing what MBEE is, what it
does, and how it can be used to establish a collaborative, well-integrated 
modeling environment for multidisciplinary engineering organizations.

Section one of this manual provides a brief introduction to getting started with
MBEE. This covers a brief overview of MBEE that outlines the general concepts of
MBEE and its architecture. Following this, section 1 provides details on 
installing and running MBEE. Finally, this section goes over MBEE basics to get
started working with MBEE.

The second section of this document provides detailed information on using MBEE.
This section is structured to provide a general and multidisciplinary approach
to the use of MBEE.

As MBEE is first and foremost a modeling tool, section three extends the 
"Using MBEE" content in a format that provides a focus specific to system 
modeling.

Section 4 discusses integrations and details the various ways data can be 
integrated and exchanged with MBEE. This section covers the MBEE API in detail
and provides a tutorial on building an API-based integration for MBEE. This 
API-based approach allows service-based integrations to be used to grow the
environment in a horizontal and distributed architecture.

While plugins are a type of integration, they are fundamentally different from 
API-based integrations with respect to their overall architecture, their 
capabilities, and their impact on the MBEE security posture. Due to the unique 
nature of plugins, they are given their own section in this document - 
Section 5. Plugins are a server-side mechanism for integrating data and new 
capabilities into MBEE that differs from the API-based approach. Plugins grow 
monolithic core of the environment to extend the capability of MBEE.

The inner workings of the MBEE Core Framework (MCF) are discussed in Section 6. 
This section is written for those who want to modify the core framework itself. 
This may be done for a variety of reasons including adding a new authentication 
module, modifying views or routes, extending data models, and much more. MCF 
was built to be open source and was designed with this degree of extensibility 
in mind. 

## About MBEE

TODO - Discuss the architecture of MBEE 
