# Introduction

Welcome to the MBEE Flight Manual. This document is intended to be an all 
encompassing user manual for the Model-Based Engineering Environment (MBEE). 
The document begins with introductory material describing what MBEE is, what it
does, and how it can be used to establish a collaborative, well-integrated 
modeling environment for multidisciplinary engineering organizations.

Section one of this manual provides a brief introduction to getting started with
MBEE. This covers a brief overview of MBEE that outlines the general concepts of
MBEE and its architecture. Following this, section 1 provides details on 
installing and running MBEE. Finally, this section goes over MBEE basics to get
started working with MBEE.

The second section of this document provides detailed information on using MBEE.
This section is structured to provide a general and multidisciplinary approach
to the use of MBEE.

As MBEE is first and foremost a modeling tool, section three extends the 
"Using MBEE" content in a format that provides a focus specific to system 
modeling.

Section 4 discusses integrations and details the various ways data can be 
integrated and exchanged with MBEE. This section covers the MBEE API in detail
and provides a tutorial on building an API-based integration for MBEE. This 
API-based approach allows service-based integrations to be used to grow the
environment in a horizontal and distributed architecture.

Section 5 introduces plugins, a server-side mechanism for integrating data and
capabilities into MBEE that fundamentally differs from the API-based approach.
Plugins provide a mechanism for growing monolithic core of the environment to
extend the capability of MBEE.

Section 6 discusses the MBEE Core Framework (MCF) in detail. This section is
written for those who want to modify the core framework itself and
