doc/1.0-getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

The Model-Based Engineering Environment or MBEE is modeling collaboration tool
that integrates system models with multidisciplinary engineering data to enable
the system model to be a single-source of truth project data. It makes model
data more accessible via a web-based user interface (UI) for ease of use across
disciplines and skill sets within an organization. MBEE provides a web-based UI
for team members to interact with system model data without needing to be a
systems modeler themselves.

The goal of MBEE is to better communicate data across engineering organizations
by implementing the core goals of model-based systems engineering through
software tools. MBEE decreases ambiguity by making a single-source of truth for
data more achievable through its RESTful API, extensible plugins, and
distributed services.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

MBEE is designed so that the only dependency to get started is Node.js and NPM.

An instance MongoDB is also necessary. If a database is not already set up, see 
the [MongoDB Installation Tutorial](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/installation/#tutorial-installation)
and the [MongoDB Getting Started Guide](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/getting-started/)
for up-to-date documentation on getting started with MongoDB.

Finally, clone the MBEE source code by running the following:
- `git clone https://github.com/lmco/mbee` 
- `cd mbee`


### Build and Run

Use the following commands to build the MBEE Core Framework:

1. Install dependencies: `npm install -g yarn && yarn install`
2. Build: `node mbee build`
3. Run: `node mbee start`

MBEE should now be running on the port specified in the config. It also prints 
the port number to the console. By default it uses port 6233.

Browse to `http://localhost:6233` in a web browser to view the MBEE web 
interface.

## Configuration

MBEE stores all it's configuration information in the `config` directory. By
default, it a file called `default.cfg`, but that can be changed by setting the
`MBEE_ENV` environment variable. 

The config file is a JSON-like file that stores the application configuration.
The core framework is designed to be largely parameterized by this config file. 
For a more detailed explanation of the config file, see the "Core Framework" 
and "Appendix A: System Administration" sections of this manual.

To get started, edit the [default.cfg](config/default.cfg) to match 
the current environment. If the database is running on `localhost`,
no changes to the config should be required to get started.

### Modular Authentication

MBEE supports modular authentication strategies. These authentication modules
have well defined interfaces that can be dynamically replaced. This allows 
administrators and developers to write a custom authentication modules to 
accommodate the needs of their organization without having to make major changes
to the core framework. The authentication module can be specified in the config 
file in the `auth.strategy` field.

By default, MBEE uses a local authentication strategy that authenticates users 
against information stored in MongoDB (as opposed to relying on some remote
service such as LDAP). 

To get started using local authentication, no configuration changes are 
required.

### Database

The `db` section of the config can be used to tell MBEE how to connect to the 
database. If the database is being run on an external server, requires a 
username and password, or uses SSL, these options can be specified in the 
config file. See the `config/example.cfg` file in the source code and/or the 
"Core Framework" and "Appendix A: System Administration Guide" sections of this
manual for more information.

### HTTP/HTTPS

The `server` section of the config allows HTTP and HTTPS to be configured. This 
section allows ports to be specified, HTTPS to be enabled, and SSL certificates
to be used.


### Admin

The default admin credentials can be specified in the `server` section of the 
config file in the `defaultAdminUsername` and `defaultAdminPassword` fields.
The default admin is only created if no other administrators exist. 

This is useful later when additional users are created and given admin 
permissions. Once additional admins exist, the default admin user can be removed
and will not be re-created unless all other admins are removed.


## MBEE Basics

Navigate to `http://localhost:6233` (or to the route matching your 
configuration) to view the MBEE web interface. This will initial redirect to
the `/login` route to prompt you to log in. Log in with your default admin 
credentials. 

The home page provides options for viewing your organizations and your projects.
A model is stored in a project. Organizations provide a way of grouping projects
together.

By default, all users belong to the *default* organization (though the name of
this organization is configurable). New organizations can be created by MBEE 
administrators.

### Creating Projects

Coming Soon!

### Navigating a Project

The project page shows a dashboard that provides and overview of the project.
The menu of the left of the screen provides options for viewing model elements,
artifacts, webhooks, and more.

### Documentation

The MBEE documentation is built into MBEE itself. Click the *documentation* menu
in the navigation menu to see dropdown menu of the documentation available. This
includes the following items:
 
- Flight Manual - This is the document you're reading now.
- JSDoc documentation - Developer documentation that document modules, 
functions, and other features in the source code.
- Swagger documentation - This documents the REST API.

## Summary

This section provided an overview of getting MBEE up and running for the first
time and some basic overview of the web interface.

Commit message:

Added integration section to FM. Fixed bug in plugin routes that requires dependencies in package.json

doc/1.0-getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

The Model-Based Engineering Environment or MBEE is modeling collaboration tool
that integrates system models with multidisciplinary engineering data to enable
the system model to be a single-source of truth project data. It makes model
data more accessible via a web-based user interface (UI) for ease of use across
disciplines and skill sets within an organization. MBEE provides a web-based UI
for team members to interact with system model data without needing to be a
systems modeler themselves.

The goal of MBEE is to better communicate data across engineering organizations
by implementing the core goals of model-based systems engineering through
software tools. MBEE decreases ambiguity by making a single-source of truth for
data more achievable through its RESTful API, extensible plugins, and
distributed services.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

MBEE is designed so that the only dependency to get started is Node.js and NPM.

An instance MongoDB is also necessary. If a database is not already set up, see 
the [MongoDB Installation Tutorial](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/installation/#tutorial-installation)
and the [MongoDB Getting Started Guide](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/getting-started/)
for up-to-date documentation on getting started with MongoDB.

Finally, clone the MBEE source code by running the following:
- `git clone https://github.com/lmco/mbee` 
- `cd mbee`


### Build and Run

Use the following commands to build the MBEE Core Framework:

1. Install dependencies: `npm install -g yarn && yarn install`
2. Build: `node mbee build`
3. Run: `node mbee start`

MBEE should now be running on the port specified in the config. It also prints 
the port number to the console. By default it uses port 6233.

Browse to `http://localhost:6233` in a web browser to view the MBEE web 
interface.

## Configuration

MBEE stores all it's configuration information in the `config` directory. By
default, it a file called `default.cfg`, but that can be changed by setting the
`MBEE_ENV` environment variable. 

The config file is a JSON-like file that stores the application configuration.
The core framework is designed to be largely parameterized by this config file. 
For a more detailed explanation of the config file, see the "Core Framework" 
and "Appendix A: System Administration" sections of this manual.

To get started, edit the [default.cfg](config/default.cfg) to match 
the current environment. If the database is running on `localhost`,
no changes to the config should be required to get started.

### Modular Authentication

MBEE supports modular authentication strategies. These authentication modules
have well defined interfaces that can be dynamically replaced. This allows 
administrators and developers to write a custom authentication modules to 
accommodate the needs of their organization without having to make major changes
to the core framework. The authentication module can be specified in the config 
file in the `auth.strategy` field.

By default, MBEE uses a local authentication strategy that authenticates users 
against information stored in MongoDB (as opposed to relying on some remote
service such as LDAP). 

To get started using local authentication, no configuration changes are 
required.

### Database

The `db` section of the config can be used to tell MBEE how to connect to the 
database. If the database is being run on an external server, requires a 
username and password, or uses SSL, these options can be specified in the 
config file. See the `config/example.cfg` file in the source code and/or the 
"Core Framework" and "Appendix A: System Administration Guide" sections of this
manual for more information.

### HTTP/HTTPS

The `server` section of the config allows HTTP and HTTPS to be configured. This 
section allows ports to be specified, HTTPS to be enabled, and SSL certificates
to be used.


### Admin

The default admin credentials can be specified in the `server` section of the 
config file in the `defaultAdminUsername` and `defaultAdminPassword` fields.
The default admin is only created if no other administrators exist. 

This is useful later when additional users are created and given admin 
permissions. Once additional admins exist, the default admin user can be removed
and will not be re-created unless all other admins are removed.


## MBEE Basics

Navigate to `http://localhost:6233` (or to the route matching your 
configuration) to view the MBEE web interface. This will initial redirect to
the `/login` route to prompt you to log in. Log in with your default admin 
credentials. 

The home page provides options for viewing your organizations and your projects.
A model is stored in a project. Organizations provide a way of grouping projects
together.

By default, all users belong to the *default* organization (though the name of
this organization is configurable). New organizations can be created by MBEE 
administrators.

### Creating Projects

Coming Soon!

### Navigating a Project

The project page shows a dashboard that provides and overview of the project.
The menu of the left of the screen provides options for viewing model elements,
artifacts, webhooks, and more.

### Documentation

The MBEE documentation is built into MBEE itself. Click the *documentation* menu
in the navigation menu to see dropdown menu of the documentation available. This
includes the following items:
 
- Flight Manual - This is the document you're reading now.
- JSDoc documentation - Developer documentation that document modules, 
functions, and other features in the source code.
- Swagger documentation - This documents the REST API.

## Summary

This section provided an overview of getting MBEE up and running for the first
time and some basic overview of the web interface. The following section on
"Using MBEE" covers the user interface and interacting with MBEE in more detail.
