# For System Modelers

Integrating system models into MBEE is currently in work and still rapidly
changing. This section will briefly detail the current approach of integrating
system models with MBEE.

## Default Elements

When every project in MBEE is created, there are 4 elements created along with
it. These elements cannot be deleted or moved, and are designed for specific
purposes. Those elements, the root `model` element, `__mbee__` package, 
`undefined` element, and `holding_bin`, are documented below.

#### model

The `model` element is designed to be the root element of every model. The model
element has an id of `model` and name of `Model` (which can be modified).
Whenever an element is created which does not specify a parent, that element
gets placed under the root model element. From there, a user has the ability to
move that element wherever they desire.

#### __mbee__

The `__mbee__` package is designed to hold all elements which are not part of
the main model. For example, if the modeler wishes to store some arbitrary
information in the MBEE project, but does not desire to place it in their model,
they can add an element and store it in the `__mbee__` package. The `__mbee__`
package also contains the `undefined` element and `holding_bin`.

#### undefined

The `undefined` element was designed to be a placeholder for relationships whose
sources/targets do not yet exist or have not been defined. If relationships like
these exist, it is recommended that the source or target is set to the
`undefined` element, since both a source and target are required if creating a
relationship. Once the actual source or target is created/defined, the
relationship element can be updated and can point to the new source/target.

#### holding_bin

The `holding_bin` was designed to be a temporary package to store elements whose
parents have not yet been created or defined. Similar to the `undefined`
element, once a parent has been defined or created, a user can simply move that
element from the `holding_bin` to it's parent. Please note, if a parent is not
provided when creating an element, it is automatically stored under the root
`model` element, not the `holding_bin`. Because of this, you must explicitly
specify the `holding_bin` as the parent if you wish to use it.

## Connecting the Model

<!-- START LMPI -->

An API-based integration service has been developed which provides one-way
synchronization from Teamwork Cloud (TWC) to MBEE. This service is currently in
beta. If you have a model in Teamwork Cloud that you would like to connect to
MBEE, please contact the MBEE development team for assistance.

Why one-way sync? This service only provides one-way synchronization because of
limitations of the Teamwork Cloud API. Our team is currently testing the ability
to update models in TWC via the TWC API, but we were advised by NoMagic to avoid
modifying model contents in TWC via the API because it will corrupt the model.

<!-- END LMPI -->

## Uses

<!-- START LMPI -->

Despite the current limitations of model synchronization, there are a number of
use cases that we've found useful.

**Model Query**
There are few ways to do this. First, the API can be used
to obtain model elements using a programming language of your choice. The MBEE
team has used high-level languages like JavaScript and Python to easily query
the model and execute more sophisticated filtering operations to analyze model
patterns or filter on specific types of elements.

The MBEE development team has also developed examples of using the MBEE API to
connect MBEE models (and subsets of models) to Neo4j, a graph database. This
allows the model to be easily queried using the Cypher query language which
provides a simple syntax for analyzing model/graph relationships.

In the case of modeling the MBEE software itself, we have used this capability
to analyze interactions and dependencies of code modules and to analyze failure
modes.

**Document Generation**
Model data can be easily retrieved and filtered via the MBEE API. This can
then be used to generate systems engineering documents based on model contents.

Early prototypes have been developed that show this can be used to generate
Word, Excel, or PDF documents.

**Requirements Traceability**

Combining model query with document generation allows for easy generation of
specific types of documents that are derived from specific relationships in
the model. One such example of this is requirements traceability.

<!-- END LMPI -->
