# Integrations

A core capability of MBEE is the ability to integrate model data from multiple
sources into a single cohesive model and to exchange data between models. This
can be achieved through a few difference mechanisms, the most noteworthy of 
which is the MBEE Core Framework's (MCF) RESTful API. 

Another way of integrating data with MBEE is through plugins that extend the
core framework. Since the architecture of plugins differs fundamentally from API
based integrations, plugins are given their own section ("5.0 Plugins") in this
Flight Manual. 

## The MBEE REST API

The API provides endpoints for creating, retrieving, updating, and deleting
objects within MBEE such as users, organizations, projects, model elements,
project artifacts, and more. The API is documented using [Swagger](https://swagger.io/)
inline documentation in the MCF source code. This documentation in then 
generated into a viewable format accessible at the [`/doc/api`](/doc/api) route
within MBEE or by clicking on *Documentation* in the navigation bar and 
selecting *API Documentation*.

The API documentation is broken down into the following sections:

- General 
- Organizations
- Projects
- Elements
- Users 

The **General** section documents API endpoints that are used for interacting 
with MBEE rather than a specific object type within MBEE. The includes a test
route that is useful for determining when the API is up, a route providing 
version information, and a route for logging into MBEE and retrieving an
authentication token.

The **Organizations** and **Projects** sections document API routes for 
manipulating organizations and projects. The **Elements** section documents
endpoints for interacting with model elements.

Finally, the **Users** section provides methods for creating, viewing, editing,
and removing users.

## Tutorial: Authentication and Pulling Data

Let's being by demonstrating a simple API-based integration. One convenient 
thing about interacting with MBEE via the RESTful API is that the integration
can be written in any language. In this tutorial, we'll use Python.

We start by creating a file called `main.py` and adding the initial boilerplate
code we need to get started:

```python
import requests
server = 'http://localhost:6233'
``` 

In the above code snippet, we import the *requests* module which we will use to
make requests to the API and we define a variable called *server* which tells
our program how to connect to MBEE. The *requests* module can be installed with 
pip, Python's package manager, by running `pip install requests` in a terminal.

Next, we can make a call (e.g. a GET request) to the `/api/test` route to make
sure we can successfully communicate with the MBEE server.

```python
# Test connection to server
url = '{}/api/test'.format(server) # the url we want to request
r = requests.get(url)              # make a GET request to url
print r.status_code                # print the HTTP response code        
```

If MBEE is up and running and the application is able to communicate with it,
the program should print out `200`, indicating that a request was made to the
API endpoint `/api/test` and the server responded with an HTTP 200 status 
(e.g. OK).

If the program does not print a 200 and instead throws an error, this is likely
because your new integration cannot talk to the server. Confirm that the server
is up and running and you are able to talk to it from your machine.

Now we can log into MBEE by making a POST request to the `/api/login` route
and passing our user credentials as a basic authentication header.

```python
# Login to the server
url = '{}/api/login'.format(server)       # the url we want to request
auth_header = ('admin', 'CHANGE_ME')      # the basic auth header
r = requests.post(url, auth=auth_header)  # make a GET request to url
res = r.json()                            # parse the JSON response
print r.status_code                       # print the HTTP response code
print res                                 # print the HTTP response body
token = res['token']                      # store the auth token for later
```

If all goes well (i.e. your credentials are valid), another 200 response should
be printed to the console along with the response body which includes and 
authentication token. This token can be used in subsequent requests rather than
passing specific user credentials to each request.

> NOTE: Both basic authentication and token authentication are valid for future 
> requests, but using tokens has a few benefits. First, tokens expire and are 
> therefore safer to pass around because a compromised token can be revoked and
> will only be valid for a limited amount of time. The other reason to use
> tokens is that they can perform better than basic auth in some configurations.
> For example, if an external authentication service is used such as Active 
> Directory with LDAP, basic authentication requires a request to the AD server
> to be made to validate user credentials. Tokens can be validated without 
> taking the time for that additional request.

Now we that we've authenticated with MBEE, we can make a request to the server
to retrieve the MBEE version information. In this case, we will use our token
to authenticate this request.

```python
# Check version
url = '{}/api/version'.format(server)
auth_header = {'Authorization': 'Bearer {}'.format(token)}
r = requests.get(url, headers=auth_header)
res = r.json()
print r.status_code
print res
```

Similar to our previous requests, we make a request to the `/api/version` route.
In this case, we parse the JSON response and print the response status code and
the response body to the console. You should see the `200` status indicating 
that everything is okay and a body that includes MBEE version information.

Now, let's clean up our code to create a simple program that inerfaces with 
MBEE to simply retrieve and print the MBEE version information. Your code
should look something like this:

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
import requests
server = 'http://localhost:6233'

# Test to make sure we can connect to the server
url = '{}/api/test'.format(server)
r = requests.get(url)

# Login to the server
url = '{}/api/login'.format(server)
r = requests.post(url, auth=('admin', 'CHANGE_ME'))
res = r.json()
token = res['token']

# Check version
url = '{}/api/version'.format(server)
auth_header = {'Authorization': 'Bearer {}'.format(token)}
r = requests.get(url, headers=auth_header)
res = r.json()
print res['version']
```

The above program removes most of the print statements that were used throughout
this walkthrough and includes a single print statement on the last line to print
the MBEE version.

That's it, you've written your first integration with MBEE! The following 
tutorial will walk through creating and organization and project.

[back to top](#integrations)

## Tutorial: Organization and Project Management

In this tutorial we will show how to manage organizations and projects. By 
default every user is a member of the *default* organization and has permission
to add projects to that organization. In this tutorial we will show how to 
create a new organization. To do so, you must be an admin user on MBEE. 
Otherwise, you can follow the project section of this tutorial by adding a
project to the *default* organization.

Before creating an organization, we must start with similar boilerplate code to
the previous tutorial where we log in to the MBEE server.

```python
import requests
server = 'http://localhost:6233'
creds = ('admin', 'CHANGE_ME')

# Test to make sure we can connect to the server
url = '{}/api/test'.format(server)
r = requests.get(url)
```

In the above code snippet, we set up our *server* variable and a *creds* 
variable to store our basic auth credentials. We'll use basic auth only in this
tutorial for simplicity. Then we test our connection to the server to make
sure we have a connection.

Now we can make a POST request to the server to create an organization.

```python
# Create an org
url = '{}/api/orgs/demo'.format(server)
r = requests.post(url, auth=creds, json={'name': 'Demo Org'})
print r.status_code
print r.json()
```

In the above code snippet, we make a request to the `/api/orgs/:orgid` route 
where we supply an organization ID of `demo`. An ID can only contain lowercase
letters, numbers, dashes (`-`), and underscores (`_`) and must begin with a 
lowercase letter or a number.

We also supply a JSON body with the POST request. In this case, we specify a 
name for our organization and call it `Demo Org`.

Now that we've created our organization, we can verify it got created by making
a GET request to the server to retrieve it. 

```python
url = '{}/api/orgs/demo'.format(server)
r = requests.get(url, auth=creds)
print r.status_code
print r.json()
```

Note that the above code snippet is nearly identical to the one used to create
the organization, but instead we do a GET request and do not provide a JSON 
body. Alternatively, you can make a get request to `/api/orgs` to get a list of 
all organizations in MBEE as a JSON array.

Now that we have our organization, we can create a project within that 
organization with a similar approach. 

```python
# Create a project
url = '{}/api/orgs/demo/projects/demo-project'.format(server)
r = requests.post(url, auth=creds, json={'name': 'Demo Project'})
print r.status_code

# Get the project
url = '{}/api/orgs/demo/projects/demo-project'.format(server)
r = requests.get(url, auth=creds)
print r.status_code
print r.json()
```

The above code creates our project by calling the 
`/api/orgs/:orgid/projects/:projectid` API endpoint. In this case we pass in the
same org ID as the one we created previously and we provide a project ID of
`demo-project`. We also provide a JSON body giving our project a name of 
`Demo Project`. Finally, we make a GET request to the server requesting the 
project we just created to verify it got created.

> NOTE: Project IDs follow the same rules as organization IDs;
> An ID can only contain lowercase letters, numbers, dashes (`-`), and 
> underscores (`_`) and must begin with a lowercase letter or a number.

Cleaning up all the code snippets above and putting it all together, we get 
a python script to create an organization and a project.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
import requests
import json

server = 'http://localhost:6233'
creds = ('admin', 'CHANGE_ME')

# Test to make sure we can connect to the server
url = '{}/api/test'.format(server)
r = requests.get(url)

# Create an org
url = '{}/api/orgs/demo'.format(server)
r = requests.post(url, auth=creds, json={'name': 'Demo Org'})

# Get an org
url = '{}/api/orgs/demo'.format(server)
r = requests.get(url, auth=creds)

# Create a project
url = '{}/api/orgs/demo/projects/demo-project'.format(server)
r = requests.post(url, auth=creds, json={'name': 'Demo Project'})

# Get the project
url = '{}/api/orgs/demo/projects/demo-project'.format(server)
r = requests.get(url, auth=creds)
print r.status_code
print json.dumps(r.json(), indent=4)
```

[back to top](#integrations)

## Tutorial: Model Management

Now that we have an organization and a project, we can begin creating a model.
To begin, let's briefly introduce some of MBEE's data model. 

There are three types of model elements (*Blocks*, *Packages*, and 
*Relationships*) that extend a base *Element* class. **Blocks** are the simplest
type of model element that add no new fields to the base element definition. 
**Packages** are like blocks, but they can also contain other elements. Packages 
are used to define the structure of the model tree. **Relationships** extend the
base element class by adding a source and target field to represent a directed
relationship between two other elements.

By default, a project has a single root element with an ID of `model`.

Before we start coding, let's begin with the same boilerplate code as the 
previous tutorials:

```python
import requests
server = 'http://localhost:6233'
creds = ('admin', 'CHANGE_ME')
```

We can POST additional packages to our model using the following code:

```python
# Create some top-level packages
url_template = '{}/api/orgs/demo/projects/demo-project/elements/{}'
packages = [
    {'id': 'pkg-a', 'name': 'Package A', 'type': 'Package', 'parent': 'model'},
    {'id': 'pkg-b', 'name': 'Package B', 'type': 'Package', 'parent': 'model'},
    {'id': 'pkg-c', 'name': 'Package C', 'type': 'Package', 'parent': 'model'}
]
for pkg in packages:
    url = url_template.format(server, pkg['id'])
    r = requests.post(url, auth=creds, json=pkg)
    print r.status_code
    print r.text
```

The above code defines a list of packages to create, then loops over that list
to create each package.

Similarly we can do this for other types of elements. The only requirement is
that we specify any data required by those elements (i.e. supply a source and
target for relationships). The following piece of code shows adding several more
elements:

```python
# Now create elements of all types
packages = [
    {
        "type": "package", 
        "id": "530faa5d-1cdf-436b-8bc1-d13cc0540a0d", 
        "parent": "pkg-a", 
        "name": "Element 01"
    }, 
    {
        "type": "block", 
        "id": "5c5c5830-15f5-4a72-89b5-1f41f96661bc", 
        "parent": "530faa5d-1cdf-436b-8bc1-d13cc0540a0d", 
        "name": "Element 02"
    }, 
    {
        "type": "package", 
        "id": "f435ea64-548d-4984-b051-a21ef6e2e215", 
        "parent": "530faa5d-1cdf-436b-8bc1-d13cc0540a0d", 
        "name": "Element 03"
    }, 
    {
        "target": "530faa5d-1cdf-436b-8bc1-d13cc0540a0d", 
        "parent": "530faa5d-1cdf-436b-8bc1-d13cc0540a0d", 
        "source": "5c5c5830-15f5-4a72-89b5-1f41f96661bc", 
        "type": "relationship", 
        "id": "fec8d562-7908-47da-b6b8-b8ed314ef29c", 
        "name": "Element 04"
    }, 
    {
        "type": "package", 
        "id": "b8820faa-3500-4d76-964c-73dac14230ac", 
        "parent": "530faa5d-1cdf-436b-8bc1-d13cc0540a0d", 
        "name": "Element 05"
    }, 
    {
        "target": "f435ea64-548d-4984-b051-a21ef6e2e215", 
        "parent": "530faa5d-1cdf-436b-8bc1-d13cc0540a0d", 
        "source": "5c5c5830-15f5-4a72-89b5-1f41f96661bc", 
        "type": "relationship", 
        "id": "6cdf9a82-eb00-4bcf-9f2f-327fea49cebe", 
        "name": "Element 06"
    }
]

for pkg in packages:
    url = url_template.format(server, pkg['id'])
    r = requests.post(url, auth=creds, json=pkg)
    print r.status_code
    print r.text
```

Model elements can be deleted by making an HTTP DELETE request to the 
`/api/orgs/:orgid/projects/:projectid/elements/:elementid` route. An example of
this in Python is as follows:

```python
url = '{}/api/orgs/demo/projects/demo-project/elements/pkg-a'.format(server);
r = requests.delete(url, auth=creds)
print r.status_code
print r.text
```

Note that model elements are soft-deleted by default. This means they are not
truly removed from the database and can be recovered if needed. MBEE admins, 
however, have the option to pass the option `"hardDelete: true` in the request
body to permanently delete elements.

This tutorial introduced some of the basics of model model management showing 
how to create, retrieve, and delete model elements. 

[back to top](#integrations)
