# Plugins

An alternative to writing integrations that interface with MBEE via the REST 
API, the MBEE Core Framework (MCF) supports plugins. Plugins are server-side 
extension of the MCF that allow integrations to add new API endpoints, create
additional views, and directly interface with MBEE data using the modules built
in to the the core framework.

Because plugins are server-side and execute code on the MBEE server, they 
introduce additional security risks that must be carefully evaluated before 
running any plugin. As extensions of the Core Framework, plugins can introduce
any vulnerability that could exist in the core framework such as cross-site
scripting, authentication bypass, data exposure, and more. It is critical that 
these risks be mitigated by vetting plugins with the same care and scrutiny that
is used to vet the core framework.

As server-side extensions of the Core Framework, plugins must also be written in
Node.js. The only interface required of a plugin is that the plugin's main file 
(i.e. the file described by the *main* field in the plugin's package.json file)
must export an Express.js application.


## Tutorial: Hello World

This section shows the creating of a simple plugin for MBEE that adds a single
route that returns the string "Hello World."

First, run `npm init` and enter the information for your plugin.

```javascript
const express = require('express');                   // Require express
const app = express();                                // Create an express app
app.get('/', (req, res) => res.send('Hello world!')); // Define a route
module.exports = app;                                 // Export the app
```

## Installing Plugins 

To install plugins on an MBEE instance, the plugins must be specified in the 
MBEE config file. This information is then used by MBEE to load plugins when the
server is started.

To specify a plugin, a "plugins" section must be provided within the "server"
section of the config. For example:

```json
"server": {
   "plugins": {
      "enabled": false,
      "plugins": []
   }
}
```

In the `server.plugins.plugins` section, an array of plugins can be specified.
Each object in this array defines a plugin and must include the following 
key-value pairs.

```json
{
  "title": "Hello World",
  "name": "helloworld",
  "source": "https://github.com/lmco/mbee-plugins-hello-world.git"
}
```

The `title` field defines a user-friendly title for the plugin. The value in
this field is used to display the plugin in the nav bar. 

The `name` field uniquely identifies the plugin (i.e. two plugins cannot be 
defined with the same name). The name defines the plugin's namespace. It should
only contains lowercase letters and numbers (no whitespace or special 
characters should be used). 

When a plugin gets loaded into the MCF, it is used by MCF within a namespace.
MCF clones the plugin into a directory based on the name and namespaces the 
plugin's routes under `/plugins/<name>`. This means that if a plugin named 
"myplugin" defines a route called `/hello`, that route will be loaded into the 
MCF as `/plugins/myplugin/hello`. This provides each plugin with their own unique
namespace so developers can define routes and APIs without worrying about 
overlap.

The `source` field tells the MCF where to get the plugin. If the source begins
with `./` or `/` it knows to get the plugin from the local filesystem. If the 
source is a URL ending in `.git`, the plugin is cloned from a Git repository. 
SSH can  also be used for Git repositories (see `deployKey` below). Finally, 
if a URL is provided that ends in `.zip`, `.gz`, or `.tar.gz`, the MCF will 
download and unzip the source code from the corresponding archive. 

An SSH key can be specified with the `deployKey` field. This field should 
contain a path to the Git deploy key (relative to the MBEE root directory).

The example below shows a few different ways to specify plugins.
 
```json
"server": {
  "plugins": {
    "enabled": false,
      "plugins": [{
        "title": "My Plugin 1",
        "name": "myplugin1",
        "source": "https://example.com/my-plugin-1-repo.git"
      }, {
        "title": "My Plugin 2",
        "name": "myplugin2",
        "source": "git@example.com:my-plugin-2-repo.git",
        "deployKey": "./keys/my-plugin-2-deploy-key.key"
      }, {
         "title": "My Plugin 3",
         "name": "myplugin3",
         "source": "./plugins/myplugin3"
      }, {
        "title": "My Plugin 4",
        "name": "myplugin4",
        "source": "https://example.com/path/to/my-plugin-4.tar.gz"
      }]
   }
}
```

## Using the Core Framework Modules

The most immediate benefit of extending the MCF through plugins is that plugin
developers can leverage all of the underlying capability and modules of the 
Core Framework. There are however some recommended practices which will be 
covered in this section.

For a full detailed discussion of the Core Framework and the modules within it,
see the next section of this document, "6.0 Core Framework". This guide is not
intended to dive into that level of detail, but instead to discuss some best
practices and give a brief introduction to the Core Framework for plugin
developers.

It is also important to understand that as a plugin developer you are extending
the underlying capabilities of the MCF. This means that your code can introduce 
vulnerabilities to MBEE the same way any code in the Core Framework can. It is
the responsibility of plugin developers and system administrators to carefully 
review plugins before deploying them into production environments.

The MBEE Core Framework (MCF) is build on an MVC (model, view, controller) 
architecture and the structure of the source code closely resembles this. 
However, the MCF provides a global object that is accessible to all plugins
without requiring any modules. This object is called the `M` object as is 
accessible through a global variable called `M`. This object is read-only and
provides a number of useful utilities for plugin developers.

### M.require

The first and most useful is the `M.require` function. This function is a 
wrapper around Node's built-in require function that allows import of MBEE 
modules without using relative paths. For example, the directory structure of 
the MCF looks something like this (roughly):

```
+ /
    + app/
        + controllers/
            + element-controller.js
        + lib/
            + utils.js
        + models/
            + element-model.js
        + views/
    + config/
    + doc/
    + plugins/
    + scripts/
    mbee.js
    package.json
```

The `M.require` gives you a mechanism for requiring Core Framework modules 
without needing to figure out the relative path of the module and the current
executing directory. `M.require` takes a single string and assumes that path is
relative to the `app` directory. 

This means that regardless of your plugin structure, anywhere in your plugin 
code you can use `M.require` to load a module. The example below shows the 
loading of the element controller.

```javascript
const elementController = M.require('controllers.element-controller');
```

One thing to note about the example above is that we did not use a slash between
`controllers` and `element-controller`. The `M.require` function allows `.` to 
be used which will then be replaced with the OS-specific separator 
automatically. Slashes may be used, but `.` is preferable.

### M.root

Another useful property on the `M` object is `M.root`. This gives the full path
of the root directory of the MBEE Core Framework. This is useful if you ever 
need to load a file or module that is not in the main app directory.

### M.config

The configuration file for MBEE is loaded into the `M` object at startup. This
means that plugins can access the full configuration without having to find
and load the config file. This also allows plugin developers to define new 
configuration fields. 

Nothing needs to be done to define a new field, simply document what must be 
there in your plugin's documentation and look for it on the `M.config` object.

You should however have some mechanism for safely failing if the configuration
item is not found. One way to approach this is to verify that all configuration
items that are needed can be found when the app is defined and throw an error if
the plugin should fail. Plugins are loaded synchronously and errors in the 
synchronous loading are easily caught by the MCF. If an error is caught by MCF 
during this loading, MCF can safely disable the plugin to avoid unexpected 
behavior.

### M.version

The `M.version` property contains a string that specifies the MCF version 
number. This is useful if your plugin is only compatible with certain versions 
of MBEE.

### M.log

The MCF logger is also provided as part of the `M` object. This logger object is
based on [Winston](https://www.npmjs.com/package/winston). Rather than using
`console.log` statements, plugin developers can use the following functions:

```javascript
M.log.error('Error! Something went wrong.');
M.log.warn('Warning! Something not great happended, but it may be okay.');
M.log.info('This is informational output.')
M.log.verbose('This is for if more detail is needed.');
M.log.debug('This is a debug statement.');
```

### Models and Controllers

The key modules that will be useful to plugin developers are the model and 
controller modules. The *models* define the data models for interacting with
the MongoDB database. They use the [mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com/) ODM
for defining object/document schema and providing interfaces for interacting
with the database. The *controllers* provide the business logic on top of the 
models. While the models handle and define the data and core objects in MCF, the
controllers implement the behavior for those objects. For that reason, it is 
highly recommended that controllers be used, not models, whenever possible and
that models only be used directly when absolutely necessary.

Each of the main data objects in MBEE has a model and a controller. The models
are found in the `app/model` directory and the module name is the name of the 
object. For example, the *elements* are defined in the model `element.js`. 

Each of these models has a corresponding controller found in the 
`app/controllers` directory. These modules are named using the following format:
`<object>-controller.js`. For example, the element controller is defined in a 
module name `element-controller.js`.

Most of these controllers provide methods for CRUD (create, read, update, 
delete) operations on these objects. For example, the element controller
can be used as follows to find an element with an ID of `model` the belongs to 
the `example` project in the `default` organization:

```javascript
const elementController = M.require('controllers.element-controller');
elementController.findElement(req.user, 'default', 'example', 'model')
  .then(element => console.log(element.name))
  .catch(err => console.error(err));
```

For more information see section "6.0 Core Framework" of this document or view
the JSDoc documentation by navigating to the [/doc/developers](/doc/developers)
route of MBEE.

### Libraries

The Core Framework provides a collection of libraries in the `app/lib` folder that
provide useful functionality for a variety of MBEE actions including event 
messaging, authentication, data validation, and much more.

For more information see section "6.0 Core Framework" of this document or view
the JSDoc documentation by navigating to the [/doc/developers](/doc/developers)
route of MBEE.

### Authentication

Adding authentication to plugin routes is quite simple. Simply import the
`authenticate` function from the `auth` library and use it as middleware on a 
route. 

For example, to have a simple plugin with an authenticated route, your app may 
look like this:

```javascript
// Initialze an express app
const express = require('express');
const app = express();

// Require the authentication module
const {authenticate} = M.require('lib.auth');

// Define an authenticated route
app.get('/', authenticate, (req, res) => res.send('Hello world!'));

// Export the app
module.exports = app;
```

## Tutorial: Creating a plugin

In this tutorial, we will create a simple plugin that adds a mass roll-up 
capability for mechanical model elements. In this case, we will assume that
we have model elements that have a custom data field for storing mechanical
data about a component or part. 

For example, let's assume a model element that represents a mechanical part 
looks something like this:

```json
{
  "id": "part-00001",
  "name": "Fuel Pump",
  "custom": {
    "mech-part": true,
    "mech-data": {
      "mass": "100",
      "mass-unit": "kg"
    } 
  }
}
```

### Creating some test data

To generate a simple test model, we will first write a brief Python script
for adding the model to MBEE via the API. See "Section 4.0 Integrations" of
this document for more on writing API-based integrations.

```python
import json
import requests
server = 'http://localhost:6233'
creds = ('admin', 'CHANGE_ME')

# Load our element data from our data.json file
with open('data.json', 'r') as f:
    packages = json.loads(f.read()) 

# Create a project in the 'default' org
url = '{}/api/orgs/default/projects/demo-mass-rollup'.format(server)
r = requests.post(url, auth=creds, json={'name': 'Demo - Mass Rollup'})
if (r.status_code != 200):
    print 'Project creation failed!'
    print r.text
    exit(1)
 
# Append to the previously defined projects URL
url = '{}/elements'.format(url)

# POST our model elements
r = requests.post(url, auth=creds, json=packages)
if (r.status_code != 200):
    print 'Element creation failed!'
    print r.text
    exit(1)

# Rename the model root
url = '{}/{}'.format(url, 'model')
r = requests.patch(url, auth=creds, json={"name": "Spacecraft Model"})
if (r.status_code != 200):
    print 'Element creation failed!'
    print r.text
    exit(1)
```

We must also define our model as JSON in a file called `data.json`. 
This file should look as follows:

```json
[
    {
        "type": "package", 
        "id": "02-systems-eng", 
        "parent": "model", 
        "name": "02 Systems Engineering"
    }, 
    {
        "type": "package", 
        "id": "06-spacecraft", 
        "parent": "model", 
        "name": "06 Spacecraft"
    },
    {
        "parent": "02-systems-eng",  
        "type": "package", 
        "id": "budgets", 
        "name": "Budgets"
    }, 
    {
        "parent": "budgets",  
        "type": "block", 
        "id": "mass-budget", 
        "name": "Mass Budget"
    }, 
    {
        "type": "package", 
        "id": "structures", 
        "parent": "06-spacecraft", 
        "name": "Structures and Mechanisms"
    },
    {
        "type": "package", 
        "id": "propulsion", 
        "parent": "06-spacecraft", 
        "name": "Propulsion"
    }, 
    {
        "parent": "structures", 
        "type": "block", 
        "id": "part-101", 
        "name": "Satellite Bus",
        "custom": {
            "mech-part": true,
            "mech-data": {
                "mass": "250",
                "mass-unit": "kg"
            }
        }
    },
    { 
        "parent": "structures", 
        "type": "block", 
        "id": "part-102", 
        "name": "Nuts and Bolts",
        "custom": {
            "mech-part": true,
            "mech-data": {
                "mass": "50",
                "mass-unit": "kg"
            }
        }
    },
    { 
        "parent": "propulsion", 
        "type": "block", 
        "id": "part-201", 
        "name": "Rocket Engine",
        "custom": {
            "mech-part": true,
            "mech-data": {
                "mass": "100",
                "mass-unit": "kg"
            }
        }
    },
    { 
        "parent": "propulsion", 
        "type": "block", 
        "id": "part-202", 
        "name": "Propellant Tank",
        "custom": {
            "mech-part": true,
            "mech-data": {
                "mass": "50",
                "mass-unit": "kg"
            }
        }
    },
    { 
        "parent": "propulsion", 
        "type": "block", 
        "id": "part-203", 
        "name": "Propellant",
        "custom": {
            "mech-part": true,
            "mech-data": {
                "mass": "550",
                "mass-unit": "kg",
                "wet-mass": true
            }
        }
    }
]
```
Now, run the Python script and you should be able to browse to the MBEE UI
to view the model tree and verify that the data was created.

### Starting an application

First we need to create a plugin. Navigate to an empty directory where you want
to develop your plugin and run `yarn init` and enter the following information:

```
question name (demo-mass-rollup): 
question version (1.0.0): 
question description: A sample MBEE plugin
question entry point (index.js): app.js
question repository url: 
question author: 
question license (MIT): MIT
question private: true
success Saved package.json
```

Now we must create our application's entrypoint, we will define this in an 
app.js file. Begin by defining an express application and some 
boilerplate code for the plugin.

```javascript
// Initialze an express app
const express = require('express');
const app = express();

// Require the authentication module
const {authenticate} = M.require('lib.auth');

// Require the element controller and utils
const Element = M.require('controllers/element-controller');
const utils = M.require('lib/utils');

// Configure EJS
app.set('view engine', `ejs`);
app.set('views', __dirname);

/* YOU PLUGIN CODE GOES HERE */

// Export the app
module.exports = app;
```

Now we need to configure our application. In this case, we need to tell 
our plugin to use the built-in MBEE layout. This can be done by adding
the line:

```javascript
app.set('layout', `${M.root}/app/views/layout.ejs`);
```

### Adding an API endpoint

Now we want to add an API endpoint to do our mass roll up. In this case,
we'll execute a database query to find all elements who have the `mech-part` 
property set to `true` in their custom data.

We'll start by defining two routes. The first is a placeholder for our homepage. 
For now, this will be simple redirect to our other route. We'll replace this 
later with an actual view, but for now  we'll just redirect to our API endpoint.

```javascript
// Add a route that redirects for now
app.get('/', (req, res) => {
    const url = `${req.originalUrl}/default/demo-mass-rollup/mass`;
    return res.redirect(url);
});
```

Next, we'll add a simple authenticated API endpoint for obtaining system mass 
that takes an organization ID and a project ID in the URL parameters and 
identifies this endpoint as a mass resource.

```javascript
// Our mass roll-up API endpoint
app.get('/:org/:proj/mass', authenticate, (req, res) => {
    // API logic here
})
```

Now we can add the logic that actually looks up the elements. Let's start
by just getting all elements that are tagged with `mech-part` and return those
to the user as JSON.

```javascript
// Find all elements in a project
Element.findElements(req.user, req.params.org, req.params.proj)
.then(elements => {
    const filtered = elements.filter(e => e.custom['mech-part']);
    const formatted = JSON.stringify(filtered, null, 4);
    res.header('Content-Type', 'application/json');
    res.status(200).send(formatted);
})
.catch(error => {
    M.log.error(error);
    return res.status(500).send('Internal Server Error')
});
```

You can test you new endpoint by browsing to your plugin in the MBEE UI. This 
will then redirect you to the API endpoint (because of the first route we
defined).

Note that the element controller's `findElements()` function takes a user, an
organization ID, and a project ID as parameters. This controller handles the
permission management to ensure that the requesting user has permission to read
elements in the specified project. 

If alternatively you wanted to use the model instead of the controller (perhaps 
to do a more specific query rather than filter the results after-the-fact), you 
would have to check those permissions yourself to avoid providing a user data 
they do not have access to. That approach would increase the 
likelihood of a major permission bypass bug in MBEE. To avoid this, always use
the controllers.

Now that we can find elements in MBEE and filter them based on custom data, lets
actually do something with that data to return something more meaningful
than raw element data.

Here, we modify our code to actually provide a roll-up of all the mass in our
system as a single value.

```javascript
app.get('/:org/:proj/mass', authenticate, (req, res) => {
  // Initialize the mass and parts count
  let mass = {
    mass: 0,
    parts: 0
  };

  // Find all elements
  Element.findElements(req.user, req.params.org, req.params.proj)
  .then(elements => {
    // Filter elements to only mech-parts
    const filtered = elements.filter(e => e.custom['mech-part']);

    // Compute our mass roll-up
    filtered.forEach(part => {
      mass.mass += Number(part.custom['mech-data'].mass);
      mass.parts += 1;
    });

    // Format and return response data
    const formatted = JSON.stringify(mass, null, 4);
    res.header('Content-Type', 'application/json');
    res.status(200).send(formatted);
  })
  .catch(error => {
    M.log.error(error);
    return res.status(500).send('Internal Server Error')
  });
})
```

With this change, you should now be able to request that API endpoint and
get a result that looks something like this:

```json
{
    "mass": 1000,
    "parts": 5
}
``` 

### Creating a view

Now that we have a working API endpoint, let's add a view. To do this, we need
to create an EJS file that will render when showing the home page for 
our plugin. 

To begin we'll create a file called `home.ejs` and add some header content, 
a form, and a table where the results will be displayed.

```ejs
<h1>Mass Rollup Tool</h1>

Welcome to the mass rollup tool. Enter an org ID of <code>default</code> and
a project ID of <code>demo-mass-rollup</code>.<br/>

<form id="my-form" class="form-inline">
  <div class="form-group">
    <label for="org">Org</label>
    <input type="text" id="org" class="form-control mx-sm-3">
  </div>
  <div class="form-group">
    <label for="project">Project</label>
    <input type="text" id="project" class="form-control mx-sm-3">
  </div>
  <div class="form-group">
    <button class="btn btn-primary" onclick="computeRollup();">
      Calculate
    </button>
  </div>
  <div class="form-group">
    <span id="msgbox"></span>
  </div>
</form>

<table id="results" class="table">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Mass</th>
      <td id="mass">?</td>
      <td>kg</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row"># of Parts</th>
      <td id="parts">?</td>
      <td></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
```

Note that there are some specific classes being used in the code above. This
is because the MCF EJS layout uses 
[Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/getting-started/introduction/) and
the Bootstrap library is automatically loaded for you.

You may want to be able to add stylistic changes or Javascript to a 
page. To do this, two page sections are defined in the MBEE EJS layout: `styles`
and `scripts`. To use these, simply add EJS content sections like those shown
below to your EJS file.

```ejs
<%- contentFor('styles') %>
<style>
#my-form {
  margin: 20px 0px;
}
table {
  max-width: 400px;
}
#msgbox {
  color: red;
}
#results {
  margin-top: 20px;
}
</style>

<%- contentFor('scripts') %>
<script>
  // Overwrite the default form submit
  $(function(){
    document.getElementById("my-form").addEventListener("click", function(event){
      event.preventDefault()
    });
  });

  // Compute roll up by pulling values from forms, executing AJAX call, and
  // displaying the final roll up.
  function computeRollup() {
    const org = $("#org").val();
    const proj = $("#project").val();
    jQuery.ajax({
      method: "GET",
      url: `${window.location.href}/${org}/${proj}/mass`
    })
    .done(function (msg, status) {
      $('#mass').html(msg.mass.toString());
      $('#parts').html(msg.parts.toString());
    })
    .fail(function(msg) {
      $('#msgbox').html('Something went wrong! Make sure org/proj are valid.');
    });
  }
</script>
```

In the JavaScript code above, we do two things. First, we overwrite the default
behavior for forms. This allows us to execute JavaScript when the form is 
submitted rather than actually submitting the form to the server. Second, we 
define the function that will be run when the form is clicked. This function 
makes an AJAX call to the API endpoint we created to get our mass rollup data 
and then displays it in the table.

Also note that, like Bootstrap, [JQuery](https://jquery.com/) is automatically 
loaded for you by the MBEE Core Framework.

### Summary

This tutorial gave a brief introduction to plugins through the development of a
simple mass roll up plugin. This was not meant to be a particularly robust or 
high-quality plugin, but to begin to shed some light on what a plugin can do.

We plan to add more advanced tutorials to this document in the future. In those
tutorials we will take this example further to demonstrate more concepts and 
capabilities of MBEE plugins.
