
For the sake of better error logs and easier debugging, a new custom
error class has been created. This class is found in lib/errors and is
called CustomError, and extends the standard Error class.


### Format

As the CustomError class extends Error, it has all of the same feature and more.
The CustomError has an additional description, status and message that the Error
class doesn't, along with some helper functions.

- Description is the only required argument for a CustomError. It is a more detailed
explanation for the error. For example, if a project cant be found, the description
may be as simple as "Project not found.".

- Status is the standard HTTP status code, such as 200, 404, 501, etc. This is an
**optional** argument into the CustomError constructor, and if not included it deafults to 500.

- Message is an autogenerated HTTP message based on the status code provided. If a 400 status
code is provided, message would be 'Bad Request'. The user does not have to handle this.


### Creating a CustomError

The constructor of the CustomError requires one parameter, and can take up to three.
It requires a description (mentioned above) as the first parameter. The status code, which is
optional and defaults to 500 if not provided, is the second parameter for the construcor.
The final parameter is a string called level. This deafults to null if nothing is provided.
This value is used to log the error, and if it's null then we do not log the error. It can accept
values of "critical", "error", "warn", "info", "verbose" and "debug".

Here are some example errors:

```javascript
const err = new CustomError('Issue saving organization.');

const err2 = new CustomError('Project not found.', 400);

const err3 = new CustomError('User cannot delete themselves.', 401, 'warn');
```

### Additional Features

Currently there are some additional functions in the CustomError class that may come in handy.

CustomError.toJSON()
    - Returns the CustomError specific fields (status, message, description) in a JSON dictionary
    meant to be returned to the user.

CustomError.inspect()
    - Overrids the console.log() function to return a custom string. THe string is formatted as so:
    404 Error: Org not found.

### User Viewpoint

Right now, the decision has been made to return this entire JSON object to the user.
It allows them to see what the issue was so that they may fix it. For some messages,
we return a 500 status and default description, as we do not want the user knowing
what the true error was. In many cases, the default response is as simple as
'Save Failed' or 'Request Failed'.


### Status Codes

Here is a list of different HTML status codes used in the system. There are many more codes
used on the web; if you don't find what you need below, check out [this link](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html)
for more ideas.

| Code | Message               | Description                                            |
| ---- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| 200  | OK                    | Everthing worked properly                              |
| 400  | Bad Request           | Improper syntax or missing parameters                  |
| 401  | Unauthorized          | The user does not have proper permissions              |
| 404  | Not Found             | Some data searched for was not found                   |
| 500  | Internal Server Error | Something went wrong on the server side                |
| 501  | Not Implemented       | The specific API endpoint has not yet been implemented |

*If you choose to use an additional HTML status code, please update this list above.*
